---
title: '2024 Engagement and Enhancement Project Ideas'
tags:
  - updates
---

PORTAL is seeking engagement and enhancement project ideas for 2024. This project ideas must support at least one objective from the [2021 Transportation System Management & Operations (TSMO) Strategy](https://www.oregonmetro.gov/sites/default/files/2022/02/16/2021%20TSMO%20Strategy%20Final.pdf).  
  
Examples of engagement tasks include trainings (e.g. how to use our API to connect to the Downloads page, in-person intro to SQL workshop, etc) updating documentation (e.g. create short video tutorials on how to use the different tools on PORTAL and BikePed Portal), and any other tasks related to engaging with agency partners, researchers, educators, and the public.  
  
Example of enhancement tasks include adding new data sources, building new pages, updating old pages, creating new tools and visualizations, creating scripts that generate data files that will help you with your regular reporting, creating interactive dashboards that can help communicate your project with various partners.  
  
[Please fill out this form](https://forms.gle/cHq7ds5Z7C1xDbtd9) to let us know if there are any projects that you'd like to see developed. These projects can be anything that your agency would find helpful. Please note that some of these projects do not need to fit in the one year timeline. Some of these projects might take more than a year to complete depending on the scope of work.  
  
If you have any additional questions please email us (askportal_at_pdx.edu).